 Legal notice | European Medicines Agency (EMA) Skip to main content English Select your language български español čeština dansk Deutsch eesti ελληνικά English français Gaeilge hrvatski italiano latviešu lietuvių magyar Malti Nederlands polski português română slovenčina slovenščina suomi svenska Íslenska norsk Search Select how you want to search using keywords All words Any word Exact phrase Medicines Find medicine Therapeutic areas: latest updates Download medicine data What we publish on medicines and when Medicines under evaluation National registers Human regulatory Overview Research and development Marketing authorisation Post-authorisation Medical devices Herbal products Veterinary regulatory Overview Research and development Marketing authorisation Post-authorisation Committees Overview How the committees work CHMP CVMP PRAC COMP HMPC CAT PDCO Working parties and other groups News & events Overview News Events What's new Committee highlights Publications Press and social media Podcast: Inside EMA Campaigns Speeches Open consultations RSS feeds Partners & networks Getting involved Overview EU partners International activities Patients and consumers Healthcare professionals Academia Pharmaceutical industry Networks Health technology assessment bodies One Health approach Animal health professionals One substance - one assessment About us Overview What we do Who we are How we work Fees Support to SMEs Annual reports and work programmes History of EMA Careers Procurement About this website Data protection and privacy Contacts Home About us About this website Legal notice Legal notice Information on the European Medicines Agency's (EMA) website is subject to a disclaimer and copyright and limited reproduction notices. Corporate Page contents Page contents Also on this topic Disclaimer European Medicines Agency copyright and limited reproduction notices European medicines web portal EMA logo Citing this website Links to this website Related content Also on this topic Complaints Logo and visual identity Disclaimer The European Medicines Agency maintains this website to enhance public access to information on its activities. EMA's goal is to keep this information and material timely and accurate. If errors are brought to its attention, EMA will try to correct them. However, EMA accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever (including, but not limited to, any direct or consequential loss or damage that might occur to you and/or any other third party) arising out of, or in connection with, the information on this site, including information relating to the documents it publishes. In particular, EMA is indemnified from and against all costs, proceedings, claims, expenses and liabilities whatsoever arising from any breach by any legal or natural person as a result of any representation or warranty providing to be a misrepresentation. The information EMA provides is: of a general nature only and is not intended to address the specific circumstances of any particular individual or entity; not necessarily comprehensive, complete, accurate or up to date; sometimes linked to external sites over which the Agency has no control and for which the Agency assumes no responsibility; not professional or legal advice. Please note that it cannot be guaranteed that a document available online reproduces an officially adopted text precisely. Thus, in case of disagreement, the official adopted text will always prevail. It is EMA's goal to minimise disruption caused by technical errors. However, some data or information on the website may have been created or structured in files or formats that are not error-free. EMA cannot guarantee that its service will not be interrupted or otherwise affected by such problems. EMA accepts no responsibility whatsoever with regard to such problems incurred as a result of using this website. This disclaimer is not intended to limit the liability of EMA in contravention of any requirements laid down in applicable national law nor to exclude its liability for matters which may not be excluded under that law. European Medicines Agency copyright and limited reproduction notices The contents of these webpages are © EMA [1995-2026] . In particular, unless otherwise stated or unless indicated by EMA following the required consultation set out below, EMA is the owner of copyright and other intellectual property rights for documents and other content published on this website. This is according to current European Union and international legislation. Information and documents made available on EMA's webpages are public and may be reproduced and / or distributed, totally or in part, irrespective of the means and / or the formats used, for non-commercial and commercial purposes, provided that EMA is always acknowledged as the source of the material. Such acknowledgement must be included in each copy of the material. Citations may be made from such material without prior permission, provided the source is always acknowledged. The above-mentioned permissions do not apply to content supplied by third parties. Therefore, for documents where the copyright vests in a third party, permission for reproduction must be obtained from this copyright holder. The above-mentioned permissions also do not apply to photos or other materials that are not under the copyright of EMA. For any use or reproduction of such photos or other materials, you may need to seek permission directly from the respective rightsholders. Please note that you should consult EMA to enquire whether specific photos or other materials are under our copyright. EMA is not responsible or liable for any violation of intellectual property rights or licensing terms committed by third parties. For more information on relevant legislation: Directive 2001/29/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society Berne convention for the protection of literary and artistic works as revised in 1971 World Trade Organization trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS agreement) signed on April 1994 World Intellectual Property Organization copyright treaty of 1996 To send a question to EMA, use the link below: Send a question to the European Medicines Agency European medicines web portal The Agency's website will serve as the European medicines web portal for the dissemination of information on medicinal products authorised in the European Union and shall make public all relevant information in accordance with Article 26 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 1235/2010. EMA logo The European Medicines Agency logo is the exclusive property of the European Medicines Agency. Its use is prohibited without our prior written permission. More information is available in Logo and visual identity . Citing this website To cite material from the EMA's website, please list it with the URL, and the month and year you accessed it, as in the following example: European Medicines Agency: EMA/MB/69923/2010 - Annual report of the European Medicines Agency 2009, from May 2010 Annual report 2009 (Annexes) Adopted English (EN) (594.67 KB - PDF) First published: 19/05/2010 Last updated: 19/05/2010 View Links to this website EMA encourages organisations and individuals to create links to its website under the following conditions: Links must not be used in a defamatory context. Linked information must not be changed in any way. Linked information to ema.europa.eu should not be displayed in a manner which suggests endorsement of any commercial product or service. Linked information to ema.europa.eu should not be displayed alongside advertising. Related content Data protection and privacy at EMA Frequently asked questions Contacts Share this page Back to top Product emergency hotline OUTSIDE WORKING HOURS About us What we do Careers Committees & working parties Regulatory network European experts About this website Languages Accessibility Glossaries Cookies Website data protection notice Data protection at EMA Frequently asked questions Search tips Access to documents Contacts Send a question EMA Service Desk (system support) Services and databases European Medicines Agency Domenico Scarlattilaan 6 1083 HS Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)88 781 6000 How to find us Postal address and deliveries Business hours and holidays RSS Feed Bluesky Follow EMA on Bluesky. Opens in a new window. YouTube Follow EMA on YouTube. Opens in a new window. LinkedIn Follow EMA on LinkedIn. Opens in a new window. © 1995 - 2026 European Medicines Agency European Union agencies network An agency of the European Union 