27 February 2025 

European Medicines Agency 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) 
Data access policy 

EMA/90987/2025 
Version 1.0 

Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 

Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 

An agency of the European Union   

© European Medicines Agency, 2025. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Executive summary ............................................................................ 4 

Scope of this guidance ....................................................................... 5 

Objectives of the guidance ................................................................. 5 

4. 
Characteristics of the guidance .......................................................... 6 
4.1.  European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) .................................................. 6 
4.2.  Access to ESMP ................................................................................................ 6 
Stakeholder groups ........................................................................................ 7 
4.2.1. 
ESMP general principles .................................................................................. 7 
4.2.2. 
Personal data protection ................................................................................. 8 
4.2.3. 
4.2.4. 
ESMP access levels ........................................................................................ 8 
4.2.5.  Detailed description of access to data held in ESMP by access levels .................... 9 

Annex A – Data elements accessible by ESMP access level ........................ 14 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

2 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of abbreviations 
Abbreviation  Full name 

API 

CAP 

CCI 

EC 

EEA 

EMA 

Application Programming Interface 

Centrally Authorised Products 

Commercially Confidential Information 

European Commission 

European Economic Area 

European Medicines Agency 

ESMP 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform 

EU DPR 

European Data Protection Regulation 

EU 

European Union 

GDPR 

General Data Protection Regulation 

GPI 

General Public Information 

HERA 

Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority 

ISO 

MAH  

International Organization for Standardisation 

Marketing Authorisation Holder 

MSSG  

Executive Steering Group on Shortages and Safety of Medicinal Products (Medicines 

NAP 

NCA 

PD 

Shortages Steering Group) 

Nationally Authorised Products 

National Competent Authority 

Personal Data 

SPOR 

Substance, Product, Organisation, and Referential 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

3 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Executive summary 

Addressing the issue of shortages of medicinal products has been a long-standing priority for Member 

States, European Commission and the European Parliament. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the 

problem of shortages of certain medicinal products considered to be critical to address the pandemic and 

has highlighted the Union's external dependence in terms of domestic production of medicinal products 

and medical devices, the lack of coordination and the structural limitations in the EU's and Member States' 

ability to rapidly and effectively react to such challenges during public health emergencies. 

The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the need for coordinated EU-wide crisis management, leading to 

strengthened frameworks for monitoring and reporting medicinal product shortages. It has demonstrated 

the need to strengthen the Union’s role to be more effective in managing the availability of medicinal 

products, the availability of medical devices, in vitro diagnostic medical devices and their respective 

accessories (collectively ‘medical devices’). One of the main goals of Regulation (EU) 2022/123 (hereafter 

also referred to as “the Regulation’’) is to ensure a strengthened framework for monitoring of and 

reporting on shortages of medicinal products during public health emergencies and major events.  

The Regulation aims to empower the European Union (EU) to better prepare for and react to health crises 

quickly, efficiently, and in a coordinated manner with a view to strategically complementing the efforts of 

the European Commission, including the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority 

('HERA'), and Union agencies, to that end. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) (hereafter also referred 

to as "the Agency") has a formal role in preparing for and managing crisis situations affecting the 

European Union (EU) single market for medicines and medical devices. The Regulation formalises some of 

the structures and processes that EMA set up in the COVID-19 pandemic and assigns new tasks to EMA in 

the following areas: 

•  Monitoring and mitigating potential or actual shortages of critical medicinal products and medical 

devices 

• 

• 

Providing scientific support to the timely development of high quality, safe and effective medicines 

during public health emergencies 

Ensuring the smooth functioning of EU expert panels to assess certain high-risk medical devices 

and advise on crisis preparation and management 

The Regulation became applicable on 1 March 2022 for medicinal products. It is part of the European 

Health Union package proposed by the European Commission in November 2020.  

EMA works with the European Commission and other EU partners to implement the Regulation. Article 13 

of the Regulation states that EMA shall set up, maintain, and manage an information technology (IT) 

platform, to be known as the European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP), that is capable of 

processing information on the supply of and demand for critical medicinal products during public health 

emergencies or major events and, outside of those situations, to allow for reporting on shortages of 

medicinal products that are likely to lead to public health emergencies or major events. The ESMP should 

allow national competent authorities (NCAs) to submit and monitor information on unmet demand, 

including information received from marketing authorisation holders, wholesale distributors and other 

4 of 14 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

 
 
 
 
 
persons or legal entities that are authorised or entitled to supply medicinal products to the public, in order 

to anticipate shortages of medicinal products. To facilitate the coordination role of the Agency, the 

interoperability of data with existing Member States' IT platforms for monitoring shortages and other 

systems, as appropriate, is essential to allow the sharing of relevant information with the ESMP to prevent, 

detect, and manage human medicine shortages in the EU and European Economic Area (EEA). ESMP 
became fully operational on 29th January 2025.  

2.  Scope of this guidance 

This ESMP Data access policy defines the overall principles for providing access to data held in ESMP in 

accordance with Article 13(6)(f) of the Regulation, which requires appropriate access levels for the 

Commission, the Agency, national competent authorities, and the MSSG. Additionally, in alignment with 

Article 6(6) of the Regulation and EU transparency principles, the policy establishes controlled public 

access to relevant shortage information through a tiered access framework that reflects varying 

stakeholder needs and data sensitivity levels. 

The policy ensures: 

•  Mandatory access for regulatory bodies as specified in Article 13(6)(f) of the Regulation 

• 

Publicly accessible web page providing on actual shortages of medicinal products as per Article 

6(6) of the Regulation 

• 

Protection of commercially confidential information 

•  Compliance with data protection regulations 

This document has been drafted with the aim of providing transparency and visibility of information on 

shortages of medicines while protecting commercially confidential information as defined by the Agency 

based on the Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. Requirements to protect personal data based on Regulation 

(EU) 2016/679 and Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. 

3.  Objectives of the guidance 

The ESMP data access policy has been developed with the goal of facilitating the maintenance of and 

accessibility to information on shortages of human medicinal products in the EU, within the overall aim of 

promoting and protecting animal and public health and the environment. 

Furthermore, this document aims to meet the EU principles of transparency and openness while ensuring 

compliance with EU personal data protection legislation. The following objectives should be met, by 

allowing data exchange and providing access to shortages information on human medicinal products: 

1.  Increasing transparency and availability of and access to shortages information of human 

medicinal products authorised in the EU; 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

5 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Simplifying the regulatory environment and reducing administrative burden by giving marketing 

authorisation holders and national competent authorities access to the functionalities of ESMP; 

3.  Facilitating the proactive identification and prevention of potential medicine shortages that could 

lead to public health emergencies or major events; 

4.  Enhancing EMA's continuous monitoring of medicines during both crisis situations and normal 

circumstances; 

5.  Supporting the EMA’s Executive Steering Group on Shortages and Safety of Medicinal Products 

(MSSG) by facilitating timely data exchange during MSSG-led preparedness situations; 

6.  Simplifying the reporting process for marketing authorisation holders by enabling them to 

routinely report shortages of authorised products through the ESMP; 

7.  Strengthening the decision making for the European Commission, NCAs and marketing 

authorisation holders by providing access to data analytics and reports. 

4.  Characteristics of the guidance 
4.1.  European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) 

The European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) is a digital tool created by the EMA to prevent, 

monitor and manage medicines shortages in the EU/EEA. ESMP aims to facilitate the collection of 

information from marketing authorisation holders and EU Member States on shortages, supply and 

demand of critical medicines during crisis situations, and potential supply issues that can lead to such 

crises. It operates during crises, under MSSG-led preparedness, and in normal circumstances, helping 

manage and prevent medicinal product shortages. EMA will collect data via the platform from the national 

competent authorities (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders (MAHs) to ensure timely responses and 

efficient management of medicinal product shortages.  

The data submitted to the ESMP is fully compliant with the standards developed by the International 

Organization for Standardization for the identification of medicinal products based on the domains of 

master data in pharmaceutical regulatory processes, namely substance, product, organisation, and 

referential data. Therefore, developed using an Agile methodology, the ESMP is designed to be 

interoperable with Member States’ IT systems and MAH’s IT systems, facilitating data exchange and 

streamlining regulatory processes across the EEA/EU. 

4.2.  Access to ESMP 

Access to ESMP for data submission is provided through the ESMP hosted in this portal ESMP Application 

Programming Interface (API). Access is based on the ESMP user roles available for each stakeholder group 

User guide for MAHs and User guide for NCAs Section 2.1 and Sections 2.2. 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

6 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.1.  Stakeholder groups 

The stakeholders being granted access to ESMP data can be grouped as follows: 

•  Stakeholders with interest in accessing publicly available information on actual shortages of 

medicinal products included in the critical medicines lists in cases in which the Agency has 

assessed the shortage and has provided recommendations to healthcare professionals and 

patients. This stakeholder group is reserved to the general public, patient and consumers, 

healthcare professionals and academia. 

•  Stakeholders with interest in reporting and accessing shortages data on human medicinal products 

authorised for regulatory purposes. This stakeholder group is reserved to organisations who are 

required to fulfil their legal responsibilities (i.e. marketing authorisation holders’ users) and to fulfil 

their responsibilities to protect public health (i.e. national competent authority users). 

•  Stakeholders with interest in managing, monitoring and processing shortages data on human 

medicinal products authorised for the purpose of shortages management in the EU/EEA. This 

stakeholder group is reserved to the Agency, the European Commission (in concrete, DG-HERA), 

and the Executive Steering Group on Shortages and Safety of Medicinal Products (MSSG). 

Note: access to data required by any other organisation not falling in the above stakeholder groups is 

defined on a case-by-case basis and in relation to the specific declared interest. 

4.2.2.  ESMP general principles 

ESMP gives the access to report availability, supply and demand information on human medicinal products 

authorised while protecting certain public and private interests, such as personal data and commercially 

confidential information as defined by the Agency based on Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.. 

The data elements collected in ESMP for human medicinal products are defined based on and comply with 

the reporting requirements specified in the Regulation. This includes information about potential or actual 

shortages, supply and demand data, and other relevant details needed for preventing, monitoring and 

managing medicine availability in the EU/EEA. The required data elements are outlined in reference 

documents – the ESMP Implementation guide for MAHs and ESMP Implementation guide for NCAs - which 

serve as guidance documents detailing the data specifications and formats that will be collected through 

ESMP's interface and ESMP API. Additional ISO data elements may be implemented in subsequent 

iterations of ESMP. 

In accordance with Article 13 of the Regulation, data submitted to ESMP complies with ISO standards for 

identification of medicinal products (IDMP), including ISO 11238:2018 (Substances), ISO 11239:2012 

(Pharmaceutical dose forms, units of presentation, routes of administration and packaging), ISO 

11240:2012 (Units of measurement), ISO 11616:2017 (Pharmaceutical products), and ISO 11615:2017 

(Medicinal products), covering the SPOR domains: substance, product, organisation, and referential data. 

In accordance with Article 13 of the Regulation and related implementing measures, the ESMP access 

framework enables data exchange that will: 

7 of 14 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

Increase access to information on shortages of medicinal products authorised for human use in the 

EU and EEA;  

•  Simplify the regulatory environment since data will be reviewed, assessed and approved as part of 

the new data operating model; 

•  Make regulatory action and decision-making more efficient thanks to improved data quality, 

integrity and reliability; 

•  Support meeting regulatory requirements more effectively by enabling secure, GDPR-compliant 

data exchange while maintaining appropriate data protection safeguards across EU systems. 

4.2.3.  Personal data protection 

The protection of personal data is a fundamental right of all European citizens. The Agency, national 

competent authorities and marketing authorisation holders must ensure secure processing of personal 

data in ESMP through appropriate technical and organisational measures, in accordance with applicable 

data protection regulations: 

• 

• 

For the Agency: Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (EU DPR) 

For competent authorities and marketing authorisation holders: Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR)  

ESMP implements appropriate safeguards to protect against unauthorized access, ensuring personal data 

is processed lawfully, fairly, and transparently based on principles of necessity and proportionality. For 

detailed information on EMA's data protection practices, please refer to the Data Protection Notice 

available at: Data protection and privacy | European Medicines Agency (EMA). 

4.2.4.  ESMP access levels 

Access to the ESMP is structured and defined based on the stakeholder’s interests and needs as well as the 

requirements of the EU DPR and GDPR. This tiered approach ensures that data is shared appropriately, 

and the data privacy and security are maintained. 

Annex A of this data access policy document lists all the ESMP data elements and outlines which can be 

accessed by the different stakeholder groups, based on the access levels described in Table 1. 

Table 1 – Description of access levels in ESMP 

Access level 

Stakeholder 

Level 1 

•  General public 

• 

Patient and Consumers 

•  Health Care Professionals 

•  Academia 

Level 2 

•  Marketing authorisation holders 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

8 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access level 

Stakeholder 

Level 3 

Level 4 

•  Contractors, vendors and other external service providers working for 

the above companies on ESMP matters 

•  National competent authorities 

•  Contractors and external service providers working for the above 

authorities on ESMP matters 

European Medicines Agency 

European Commission 

• 

• 

•  Medicine Shortages Steering Group (MSSG) 

ESMP data are classified as follow:  

•  Commercially Confidential Information (CCI): Information that requires restricted access due to 

business sensitivity (e.g., Manufacturing capacity data) 

• 

Industry Public Information (IPI): Technical or regulatory information that is public but primarily 

used by industry stakeholders (e.g., PMS ID) 

•  General Public Information (GPI): Information intended for broad public access (e.g., Medicinal 

product full name, Marketing authorisation holder, shortage status) 

4.2.5.  Detailed description of access to data held in ESMP by access levels 

The below sections provide detailed information on the level of accessibility of shortages data held in 

ESMP. 

4.2.5.1.  ESMP access level 1 – Public 

In accordance with Article 6(6) of the Regulation, the general public (including patients, consumers, 

healthcare professionals and academia) shall have access to actual shortages of medicinal products 

included in the critical medicines lists where the Agency has assessed the shortage and provided 

recommendations. 

The public is provided with access to shortage processed data, specifically through the Shortages 

catalogue of ongoing and resolved shortages of human medicines assessed by EMA.  

Access Level 1 is reserved to any stakeholders with interest in accessing public ESMP data for specific 

cases falling outside the regulatory scope, without the possibility to change the information therein. This 

level of access ensures transparency and keeps the public informed about medicine availability and related 

trends without compromising commercially confidential information or personal data. 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

9 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 – Access to ESMP data by Level 1 

Stakeholder 

Access level 

Access type 

•  General public 

Public subset of all shortages of 

Not required/controlled 

• 

Patient and Consumers 

human medicinal products. 

•  Health Care Professionals 

•  Academia 

•  WHO 

4.2.5.1.1.  Personal data protection requirements 

Data access and provision is based on each ESMP data set (Level 1) in compliance with the Regulation. 

4.2.5.2.  ESMP access level 2 – MAHs 

In accordance with the Regulation, the organisations falling under this stakeholder group with interest in 

reporting and accessing shortages data on valid human medicinal products authorised shall have full 

access to public (Level 1) and restricted subsets of information reported in ESMP. Access level 2 is 

reserved to allow users to fulfil their legal obligation and responsibilities for their own products.  

Marketing authorisation holders shall submit and monitor shortage-related information in accordance with 

the Regulation. Detailed operational procedures are documented in the ESMP User guide for MAHs. 

The access management in ESMP is a decentralised mechanism in which designated administrator(s) for 

each organisation decide whether to approve/deny subsequent ESMP access role requests. 

MAHs require ESMP access to download, submit and manage data related to: 

1.  Crisis/MSSG-led preparedness - Availability information: data on medicine availability, stocks, 

supply forecasts, and other. 

2.  Crisis/MSSG-led preparedness - Marketing status for nationally authorised products (NAPs): 

information on the marketing status of NAPs. 

3.  Crisis/MSSG-led preparedness - Manufacturing information: details on manufacturing capacities 

and plans for centrally and nationally authorised products during crisis. 

4.  Crisis/MSSG-led preparedness - Alternative therapies: submission of data on alternative therapies 

available. 

5.  Preparedness - Routine shortage reporting: regular reporting of shortages to assist in 

preparedness activities. 

MAH users are only entitled to access the data according to the Organisation(s) they have an affiliation. 

Furthermore, each MAH user can only access metadata on their own data submissions. 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

10 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 – Access to ESMP data by Level 2 

Stakeholder 

Access level 

Access type 

•  Marketing authorisation 

Full access to both public and 

Authorised personnel only 

holders 

•  Contractors, vendors and 

restricted subsets of their own 

shortages of authorised human 

other external service 

providers working for the 

above companies on the 

ESMP subject 

medicinal products to fulfil their legal 

responsibilities for their own products. 

This level has sub-levels of access:  

• 

Level 2a providing full access 

to commercially confidential 

information (CCI) for their own 

products. 

• 

Level 2b providing access to 

General Public Information 

(GPI) and Industry Public 

Information (IPI) only. Access 

to commercially confidential 

information (CCI) for other 

products is not granted. 

4.2.5.2.1.  Personal data protection requirements 

Data access and provision is based on each ESMP data set (Level 2) in compliance with the Regulation. 

4.2.5.3.  ESMP access level 3 – NCAs 

In accordance with the Regulation, the organisations falling under this stakeholder group with interest in 

reporting and accessing supply and demand data on valid human medicinal products authorised shall have 

full access to public (Level 1) and restricted subsets of information reported in ESMP. Access level 3 is 

reserved to allow users to fulfil their legal obligation and responsibilities for centrally authorised products 

(CAPs) and nationally authorised products (NAPs) of their country. 

For detailed procedures on submitting and retrieving data for stock and supply, patient estimations, 

demand forecasting, and medicine usage, please refer to the User guide for NCAs, which outlines the 

specific steps and technical requirements. 

The access management in ESMP is a decentralised mechanism in which designated administrator(s) for 

each organisation decide whether to approve/deny subsequent ESMP access role requests. 

NCAs require ESMP access to download, submit and manage data related to: 

11 of 14 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Crisis - Stock and supply 

2.  Crisis - Patient estimation 

3.  Crisis - Medicine usage 

4.  MSSG-led preparedness – National demand 

NCA users are entitled to access all the relevant data submitted by MAHs to support national and EU-level 

actions in response to potential or actual shortages of centrally authorised products (CAPs) and nationally 

authorised products (NAPs) of their country. This includes data needed for shortage prevention, mitigation, 

and management activities. Furthermore, each NCA user can access metadata information on data 

submissions executed by users of the NCA for which they have an affiliation. 

Table 4 – Access to ESMP data by Level 3 

Stakeholder 

Access level 

Access type 

•  National competent 

Full access to both public and 

Authorised personnel only 

authorities 

restricted subsets of data for medicinal 

•  Contractors and external 

service providers engaged 

by the EMA or the NCAs 

for the ESMP are subject 

to specific contractual 

agreements that include 

data confidentiality, 

security, and compliance 

obligations. Their access 

to ESMP data and 

systems is granted strictly 

for the duration and 

scope of their contract 

and must adhere to all 

relevant policy 

requirements. 

products that are authorised in their 

Member State/EEA country, including 

centrally authorised products (CAPs) 

and nationally authorised products 

(NAPs) under their jurisdiction, to fulfil 

their regulatory oversight 

responsibilities. This level has sub-

levels of access:  

• 

Level 3a providing full access 

to commercially confidential 

information (CCI) for centrally 

authorised products (CAPs) 

and nationally authorised 

products (NAPs) that are 

authorized in their Member 

State/EEA country; Level 3b 

providing access to General 

Public Information (GPI) and 

Industry Public Information 

(IPI) only. Access to 

commercially confidential 

information (CCI) for products 

authorized in other Member 

States/EEA countries (outside 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

12 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
Stakeholder 

Access level 

Access type 

their jurisdiction) is not 

granted. 

4.2.5.3.1.  Personal data protection requirements 

Data access and provision is based on each ESMP data set (Level 3) in compliance with the Regulation. 

4.2.5.4.  ESMP access level 4 – EMA 

In accordance with the Regulation, the organisations falling under this stakeholder group with interest in 

managing, monitoring and processing shortages data on valid human medicinal products authorised for 

the purpose of shortages management at the EU shall have full access to both public subset and restricted 

subset of all shortages of human medicinal product data elements without restrictions. 

Access level 4 users are granted secure access to ESMP through appropriate authentication mechanisms. 

The Agency manages access rights through a decentralized administration model. 

EMA users require ESMP access for: 

1.  Operational purposes: fulfilling the Agency's responsibilities in monitoring and managing medicine 

shortages at the EU level 

2.  Data analytics purposes: analyzing trends, identifying potential shortages, and supporting 

decision-making processes 

Table 5 – Access to ESMP data by Level 4 

Stakeholder 

Access level 

Access type 

•  Agency 

Full access to both public subset and 

Authorised personnel only 

restricted subset of all shortages of 

human medicinal product data 

elements without restrictions. 

• 

European 

Commission 

•  Medicine 

Shortages 

Steering 

Group 

(MSSG) 

4.2.5.4.1.  Personal data protection requirements 

Data access and provision is based on each ESMP data set (Level 4) in compliance with the Regulation. 

13 of 14 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: this guidance will be subject to revision and further releases based on the ESMP progresses and 

deliverables. 

Annex A – Data elements accessible by ESMP access level 

•  R / C / U / D = Read, Create, Update, Delete 

• 

Y/N = Yes, No 

European Shortages Monitoring Platform (ESMP) – Data access policy 

14 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
