 Disclaimer - OER Grants Web Site | Grants & Funding Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know U.S. Department of Health and Human Services | National Institutes of Health Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock (🔒) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Redirect Notice It looks like you have reached this page through a permanent redirect. Please update your links/bookmarks to the new URL. Tools eRA Glossary FAQs Help Main navigation New to NIH Funding Funding As the largest public funder of biomedical research in the world, NIH supports a variety of programs from grants and contracts to loan repayment. Learn about assistance programs, how to identify a potential funding organization, and past NIH funding. Explore Funding Explore NIH Grant Opportunities Funding Categories Find a Fit for Your Research Explore Who and What NIH Funds NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts Grants Process Grants Process Take time to learn about each step in the grants process from planning to apply through developing and submitting your application to award and post-award reporting. Explore Grants Process Plan to Apply Write Application Submit Review Award Post-Award Monitoring and Reporting Policy & Compliance Policy & Compliance By accepting a grant award, recipients agree to comply with the requirements in the NIH Grants Policy Statement unless the notice of award states otherwise. Explore Policy & Compliance Implementation of New Initiatives and Policies Grants Policy Statement Notices of Policy Changes Compliance & Oversight Policy Topics News & Events News & Events Get the "scoop" on the latest news related to the NIH grant application and award processes, grants policy, research funding and biomedical workforce analyses, and more. Explore News & Events Calendar of Events NIH Extramural Nexus (News) On-Demand Event Resources Subscribe and Follow Podcasts About Us About Us Office of Extramural Research (OER) provides the corporate framework for NIH research administration, ensuring scientific integrity, public accountability, and effective stewardship of the NIH extramural research portfolio. Explore About Us OER Offices Breadcrumb Home Disclaimer - OER Grants Web Site Disclaimer - OER Grants Web Site General Disclaimer Substantial effort has been made to provide accurate and complete information on this Web site. However, we cannot guarantee that there will be no errors. Neither the U.S. Government, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) nor the Office of Extramural Research (OER) assumes any legal liability for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, products, or processes disclosed herein, or represents that use of such information, products, or processes would not infringe on privately owned rights. NIH/OER does not endorse or recommend any commercial products, processes, or services. The views and opinions of authors expressed on OER websites do not necessarily state or reflect those of the U.S. Government, and they may not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. Exit Disclaimer This graphic notice ( ) means that you are leaving the Office of Extramural Research (OER) website. Such external links provide additional information that is consistent with the intended purpose of this site. OER cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal site. Linking to a non-federal site does not constitute an endorsement by NIH or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the site. You will be subject to the destination site's privacy policy when you follow such links. Survey Disclaimer Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average [5 minutes] per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to: NIH, Project Clearance Branch, 6705 Rockledge Drive, MSC 7974, Bethesda, MD 20892-7974, ATTN: PRA (0925-0642). Do not return the completed form to this address. See Also Accessibility​ Freedom of Information Act This page last updated on: August 9, 2024 For technical issues E-mail OER Webmaster Tools | Mobile Only Help, FAQs, And More eRA Glossary FAQs Help National Institutes of Health Bethesda, MD 20892 Stay Connected Subscribe for Grant News Government Sites Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health USA.gov - Government Made Easy NIH Staff (Intranet ) Web Policies and Notices Accessibility HHS Vulnerability Disclosure FOIA Privacy Notice Disclaimer Archive of this Page Since September 24, 2024 Older Versions of this Website Site Map Home New To NIH Funding Grants Process Policy & Compliance News & Events About Us 
