 Policies | NSF - U.S. National Science Foundation Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS. A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Menu Search search Find Funding Funding Search Award Search NSF-wide Initiatives Research Experiences for Undergraduates Where to Start For Everyone For Early-Career Researchers For Postdoctoral Fellows For Graduate Students For Undergraduates For Industry For Entrepreneurs How to Apply Preparing Your Proposal Submitting Your Proposal Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) Additional Resources Research.gov Grants.gov How We Make Funding Decisions Manage Your Award Getting Started Request a Change to Your Award Report Your Outcomes Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) Additional Resources Research.gov NSF Public Access Repository Who to Contact With Questions Focus Areas Major Initiatives Artificial Intelligence Biotechnology Quantum STEM Workforce Focus Areas Explore All Focus Areas Arctic and Antarctic Astronomy and Space Biology Chemistry Computing Earth and Environment Education and Training Engineering Facilities and Infrastructure Materials Research Mathematics People and Society Physics Research Partnerships Technology News & Events News & Announcements NSF Impacts Science Matters Blog For the Press Upcoming Events About About NSF Careers at NSF Updates on NSF Priorities Contact Us Our Directorates & Offices How NSF Is Organized Biological Sciences (BIO) Computer & Information Science & Engineering (CISE) Engineering (ENG) Geosciences (GEO) Integrative Activities (OIA) International Science & Engineering (OISE) Mathematical & Physical Sciences (MPS) Social, Behavioral & Economic Sciences (SBE) STEM Education (EDU) Technology, Innovation & Partnerships (TIP) National Center for Science & Engineering Statistics (NCSES) National Science Board (NSB) Policies View image credit Policies Accessibility Artificial Intelligence Brand Standards Conflicts of Interest Controlled Unclassified Information Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Gold Standard Science Information Quality Plain Language Privacy Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide Research Security Responsible and Ethical Conduct of Research Scientific Integrity Social Media Vulnerability Disclosure Web Share Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly known as Twitter) Share on LinkedIn Email This page highlights important policies and procedures of the U.S. National Science Foundation. Accessibility Tell us about an accessibility issue on our site and learn about NSF's efforts to meet or exceed the requirements of Section 508 of the "Rehabilitation Act." Artificial Intelligence A central hub for agency-wide AI efforts, including strategic direction and compliance guidance. Brand Standards View guidance for NSF staff, award recipients, contractors, partners and the public regarding the use of the NSF logo and brand. Conflicts of Interest View NSF's conflict-of-interest policies and guidelines. Controlled Unclassified Information Learn about the management of sensitive, unclassified information handled by NSF, its partners and organizations funded by the agency. Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Learn how to make FOIA or "Privacy Act" requests. Gold Standard Science Learn about NSF's implementation of Gold Standard Science. Information Quality Learn about the agency's efforts to ensure the quality, objectivity, utility and integrity of the information we disseminate, or request a correction to NSF information. Plain Language Learn about NSF's implementation of the requirements of the "Plain Writing Act of 2010." Privacy Learn how NSF collects, uses and shares information about individuals and how to contact NSF about this information and other privacy-related issues. Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide The PAPPG is the source of information about NSF's proposal and award process. Research Security Learn about NSF's policies and actions to strengthen research security. Responsible and Ethical Conduct of Research Learn about NSF's policies and resources applicable to the responsible and ethical conduct of research. Scientific Integrity Learn about the expectations and procedures required to maintain and enhance scientific integrity at NSF and across the research community. Social Media Learn about NSF's comment policy and other information relating to NSF's use of social media. Vulnerability Disclosure View guidelines for conducting vulnerability discovery activities about NSF. Web View NSF's web-related policies. Top Publication date: December 19, 2024 Last updated: March 18, 2026 Randolph Building 401 Dulany Street Alexandria, VA 22314 (703) 292-5111 Sign up for email updates Footer About Us About NSF Careers Our Directorates & Offices National Science Board Contact Us What's New News & Announcements Events Science Matters Blog Information For Funding Seekers NSF Awardees Congress Media Educators Panelists Resources Documents & Reports Budget, Performance & Financial Reporting Public Access Stopping Harassment Research Security Scientific Integrity Research.gov Required Policy Links Vulnerability disclosure Inspector General Privacy FOIA No FEAR Act USA.gov Accessibility Plain language 
