 Home Permissions and licensing Permissions and licensing All judgments on Find Case Law are free to access, but different rules apply depending on how you want to use the records. On this page Understanding permissions What you can do freely When you need permission How to apply for a licence Legal framework Questions about permissions Permissions and licensing All judgments on Find Case Law are free to access, but different rules apply depending on how you want to use the records. Understanding permissions Most uses of Find Case Law judgments are free under the Open Justice Licence . This includes commercial use such as incorporating judgments into products or applications. However, if you want to perform computational analysis, you need to apply for a separate licence . Computational analysis includes any programmatic searching in bulk across Find Case Law records to identify, extract or enrich contents within the records. Here's what you can do freely, when you need permission and how to apply. What you can do freely You don't need permission for most uses of Find Case Law judgments, including: reading and downloading judgments using them for legal research and case preparation quoting them in academic work, articles, or publications sharing links to judgments teaching and educational purposes personal reference and study commercial use, such as incorporating into products or applications When you need permission You need to apply for a licence if you want to perform computational analysis. You can read a more detailed description of computational analysis in our glossary. When you need permission explains what counts as computational analysis and whether your intended use requires a licence. How to apply for a licence If you need to perform computational analysis, we have a straightforward application process. You can read a more detailed description of computational analysis in our glossary . What you need to apply for a licence explains: the 6 sections of the application form the 29 questions you'll need to answer how to prepare your application Licence application process explains: how applications are assessed the approval process timelines and what to expect There are no costs to apply for a licence to perform computational analysis. Legal framework If you need the detailed legal terms, read our legal framework for: the Open Justice Licence terms technical specifications for licensed uses legal definitions and conditions Questions about permissions If you're unsure whether you need a licence, visit When you need permission for guidance, or contact us at caselawlicence@nationalarchives.gov.uk . Most people using Find Case Law for research, legal work, journalism or commercial products don't need a licence – you can start using judgments freely right away under the Open Justice Licence. Back to top Help us improve this service Take a short survey 