Medicine Shortage Communication  

<date> 

Zypadhera (Olanzapine pamoate monohydrate <210 mg / 300 mg / 
405 mg> powder and solvent for prolonged release suspension for 
injection): supply shortage 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

CHEPLAPHARM Registration GmbH, is notifying healthcare professionals about an ongoing critical 

shortage of Zypadhera. 

Overview of situation 

•  Since 2024, there is a shortage of Zypadhera. The shortage concerns all 

strengths of the medicine < 210 mg / 300 mg / 405 mg > and is expected to 
last until October 2025. 

•  The shortage was initially due to manufacturing problems with the 50 mm 

needle supplied with the medicine. 

•  The shortage has worsened due to additional manufacturing and supply chain 
problems  at  the  existing  site  and  while  implementing  a  new  manufacturing 
site and a quality defect which led to particles in two batches of the medicine. 
The  affected  batches  were  not  released  on  the  market  which  put  further 
constraints on the supply situation. 

•  The  shortage  affects  all  EU/  EEA  countries  where  the  product  is  marketed 
(Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Czech  Republic,  Germany,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Spain,  Finland,  France,  Greece,  Hungary,  Ireland,  Italy,  The  Netherlands, 
Norway, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia and Sweden). 

Mitigation measures 

To reduce the impact of the shortage, the MAH is engaging with the European Medicines 
Agency and relevant National Competent Authorities on appropriate mitigation measures. 
The following actions have been taken to address and improve the situation:  

• 

• 

• 

increased manufacturing shifts at the manufacturing site;  

implementation of corrective and preventative actions to address the quality defect; 

reallocation of stock within the EU and from global supply, in a fair and equitable 
manner. 

During the shortage, healthcare professionals should: 

•  Not prescribe Zypadhera to new patients to reserve / guarantee supply for 

patients who are already taking this medicine and who do not have suitable 
alternatives. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  If switching existing patients from Zypadhera to another antipsychotic, take 

the following into consideration:  

o  There is no other olanzapine depot formulation available in the EU. 

o  Follow relevant guidance issued at national level when switching 

medicines.  

o  There are no systematically collected data to specifically address 

switching patients from Zypadhera to other antipsychotic medicinal 
products. 

o  Olanzapine pamoate salt results in a slow continuous release of 

olanzapine that is complete approximately six to eight months after 
the last injection. Therefore, clinician supervision, especially during 
the first 2 months after discontinuation of Zypadhera, is needed when 
switching to another antipsychotic product and is considered 
medically appropriate. 

o  Healthcare professionals should be aware that switching patients to 
another antipsychotic may carry a risk of relapse. Patients should 
therefore be monitored for signs and symptoms of a relapse; 
alternative formulations such as oral treatments may be associated 
with lower compliance. 

Background on the shortage   

Zypadhera is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia sufficiently 

stabilised during acute treatment with oral olanzapine. It has been authorised in the EU since 

November 2008 and is available as a 210 mg, 300 mg and 405 mg powder and solvent for prolonged 

release suspension for injection. 

The critical shortage of Zypadhera started in 2024, following a manufacturing problem with the 50 mm 

needles supplied with the medicine. The shortage has now worsened due to other manufacturing 

problems, such as: 

o  Unavailability of active substance vials and delivery challenges 

o  Change in the needle manufacturing site and the manufacturer’s name.  

o  Malfunction of manufacturing equipment and the need to purchase new equipment. 

o  A quality defect as visible particles have been identified in 2 batches of Zypadhera. 

These batches were not released to the market. 

o  A third-party manufacturer had to change excipient manufacturer which caused further 

delays in production.  

As a result of the quality defect, production was paused, which further worsened the shortage 

situation. That issue has been resolved and production resumed. However, due to the manufacturing 

and supply issues outlined, the shortage is expected to last until October 2025 in all EU/EEA countries 

where the medicine is marketed.  

For additional information on the shortage, consult <your country’s shortage register (if available)> 

<or  your national competent authority.> 

 
 
 
 
Company contact point 

<Contact point details for access to further information, including relevant website address(es), 

telephone numbers and a postal address> 

Annexes (if applicable) 

<Link/reference to other available relevant information, such as information on the website of a 

competent authority>  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Zypadhera / Olanzapine 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

CHEPLAPHARM Registration GmbH 

Purpose of the 

Inform healthcare professionals about ongoing and upcoming shortages 

communication 

on Zypadhera 

MSC recipients 

Hospital pharmacists and target groups should be further defined at 

national level, in agreement with the respective national competent 

authority 

Member States where 

Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Germany, Denmark, 

the MSC will be 

Estonia, Spain, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The 

distributed 

Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia and Sweden. 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

27 June 2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

22 July 2025 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

25 July 2025 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

1 August 2025 

Dissemination of MSC  

 22 August 2025  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
