Medicine Shortage Communication 

 03 Jul 2026 

TEGSEDI® (inotersen sodium, 284 mg solution for injection in pre-
filled syringe): planned marketing cessation (discontinuation) 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Limited would like to inform you of the permanent discontinuation of 

TEGSEDI (inotersen sodium) in the European Union (EU) from 01 December 2026 onwards. 

Overview of situation 

•  Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Limited is discontinuing Tegsedi based on a

commercial decision (low utilisation of the product and natural attrition to 
other commercialised therapies). Submission of the marketing authorisation 
withdrawal is planned for 01 Dec 2026. 

•  The discontinuation affects all EU countries where the product is marketed,
specifically Austria, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden. National withdrawal 
submissions will be carried out in these countries where the product is 
marketed and are planned according to national lead time requirements. 

•  This discontinuation will be permanent.

•  The product discontinuation is not due to any safety, efficacy or quality

concerns with TEGSEDI® 

Mitigation measures 

In order to manage the product discontinuation, the marketing authorisation holder is engaging with 

the European Medicines Agency and the National Competent Authorities to provide sufficient time to 

alert national agencies and for healthcare professionals to prepare.  

In preparation for the product discontinuation, healthcare professionals should: 

•  Not prescribe Tegsedi to new patients.

•  Transition all patients who are currently taking TEGSEDI to an appropriate
commercially available treatment alternative indicated to treat stage 1 or 

Stage 2 polyneuropathy in adult patients with hereditary transthyretin 
amyloidosis (hATTR). 

•  Consult EMA’s shortage catalogue, their respective country’s shortage 

register (if available) or their respective national competent authority for 
additional information. 

Background on the shortage   

Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Limited will be permanently discontinuing TEGSEDI (inotersen) in the EU 

and submitting the marketing authorisation withdrawal on 01 December 2026. This is a commercial 

decision based on low utilisation of the product and is not related to manufacturing, quality, or safety 

matters associated with TEGSEDI. Akcea believes this withdrawal will not deprive patients diagnosed 

with polyneuropathy of hereditary ATTR from appropriate treatment since there are several approved 

and available treatment alternatives. 

Company contact point  

Suspected adverse drug reactions may be reported to the marketing authorisation holder, via 

adverseevent@ionis.com. 

The distributor’s (Sobi) medical information department may also be contacted at +46 8 697 20 00 or 

medical.info@sobi.com if there are any questions about the information contained in this letter. This 

letter is not intended as a complete description of the benefits and risks related to the use of TEGSEDI. 

Please refer to the enclosed Summary of Product Characteristics. 

For more information about Sobi, please call +46 8 697 20 00 or visit www.sobi.com. For more 

information about Ionis Pharmaceuticals, please call 1-760-931-9200 or visit www.ionispharma.com. 

Annexes (if applicable) 

<Link/reference to other available relevant information, such as information on the website of a 

competent authority>  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication  

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

TEGSEDI® (inotersen sodium, 284 mg solution for injection in 

product(s)/active 

pre-filled syringe): 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Limited 

Purpose of the 

Notification of Product Discontinuation 

communication 

MSC recipients 

Prescribers 

Member States where 

the MSC will be 

distributed 

Timetable  

Austria, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

09/03/2026 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

20/04/2026 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

20/05/2026 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

Dissemination of MSC  

26/06/2026 

03/07/2026 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
