Medicine Shortage Communication 

<Date> 

Insulin Lispro Sanofi (insulin lispro 100 U/mL) solution for 
injection - cartridges and pre-filled pen (3 mL): 
Supply shortage  

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

Sanofi <affiliate to include country specific information to reflect global or local company name> is 

notifying healthcare professionals about a shortage of: 

• 

• 

Insulin Lispro Sanofi (insulin lispro 100 U/mL) solution for injection in cartridges, and; 

Insulin Lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 

Insulin Lispro Sanofi (100 units/ml) solution for injection in vial is not impacted 

Overview of situation: 

•  A supply shortage of the above listed presentations of Insulin Lispro Sanofi 

is expected to start in <the first quarter of 2026>. 

•  Currently, it is not clear when the shortage will end. 

•  The shortage is not due to any safety, efficacy or quality concerns and it 

stems from an unprecedented surge in demand for Sanofi insulin products. 

Mitigation measures 

In order to  manage the  supply shortage, Sanofi is engaging  with the European Medicines Agency 

and the [National Competent Authority] on mitigation measures.  

Regulatory  authorities,  physicians,  healthcare  providers  and  patient  organisations  are  being 

informed to help ensure patients transition safely to alternative options for continuity of care.  

Patients need to be switched to an alternative treatment in time to avoid the risk of missing doses, 
which may lead to serious clinical consequences. 

Healthcare professionals (HCPs) should consider the following mitigation 
measures:  

•  During the shortage, no new patients should be started on the affected presentations of Insulin 

lispro Sanofi. 

• 

Patients who are currently receiving treatment with the affected presentations of Insulin Lispro 

Sanofi should be switched to alternative insulin lispro-containing products or to products 

containing other rapid-acting insulin analogues (e.g., insulin aspart or insulin glulisine). 

Page 1/3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  <Insulin lispro Sanofi is a ‘biosimilar medicine’; the following insulin lispro containing 

medicines are available in <country> and can be considered interchangeable with Insulin lispro 

Sanofi: > <To be modified by affiliate at national level> 

• 

If you switch patients to another rapid-acting insulin, take the following into consideration: 

o  Alternative rapid-acting insulins provide comparable glycemic control but may require 

individualised dose adjustments due to differences in insulin pharmacokinetics, 

specifically onset, peak, and duration of action. 

o  Provide clear instructions on the use of any new insulin delivery system. This includes 

a potential need for change in dose and additional glucose monitoring. 

o  Close glucose monitoring is recommended during the switch to alternative fast-acting 
insulin analogues and in the first week or at the discretion of the healthcare provider 

thereafter, especially in pregnant women and children who may need closer monitoring 

than the general population. The risk of hypoglycaemia may be higher in these 

populations.  

o  Follow dosing recommendations in the relevant summary of product characteristics 

while switching patients to alternative fast-acting insulin analogs.  

Background on the shortage and the medicinal product   

There has been an unprecedented increase in demand on all Sanofi Insulins. Sanofi will be unable 

to immediately adapt and increase its supply for Insulin lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for 

injection in cartridge and Insulin lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 

Insulin lispro Sanofi is indicated for the treatment of adults and children with diabetes mellitus who 

require insulin for the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin lispro Sanofi is also 

indicated for the initial stabilisation of diabetes mellitus. It contains the active substance insulin 

lispro. Insulin lispro Sanofi is a ‘biosimilar medicine’ which means that it is highly similar to a 

biological medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the 

European Union (EU). The reference medicine for Insulin lispro Sanofi is Humalog 100 U/ml 

solution.  

Insulin lispro Sanofi is a fast-acting insulin analog; it is usually given shortly before a meal and, 

when necessary, soon after a meal. The dose of Insulin lispro Sanofi is worked out for each patient 

and depends on the patient’s blood glucose level. Healthcare professionals should instruct the 

patient on how to use the medicine properly. 

For up-to-date information on the availability of Insulin Lispro Sanofi and the alternatives in a 

particular EU/EEA country, consult the National Competent Authority. 

Company contact point 

Further information can be obtained by contacting <local Sanofi affiliate contact details to be 

added by affiliate> 

Yours sincerely, 

Medical Director  

Annex 

References:  

Insulin lispro Sanofi | European Medicines Agency (EMA) 

Page 2/3 

 
 
 
 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication  

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Insulin Lispro Sanofi (insulin lispro 100 U/mL) 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

 Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 

Purpose of the 

Inform healthcare professionals about anticipated shortages on Insulin 

communication 

Lispro Sanofi for both Insulin Lispro Sanofi (insulin lispro 100 U/mL) 

solution for injection in cartridges and Insulin Lispro Sanofi 100 

units/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 

MSC recipients 

Endocrinologists,  diabetologists,  internal  medicine  specialists,  general 

practitioners, family physicians, pharmacists, and diabetes nurses. The 

target  group  should  be  further  defined  at  national  level,  in  agreement 

with the respective national competent authority. 

Member States 

where the MSC will 

be distributed 

Timetable  

In agreement with NCAs 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

10/11/2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

21/11/2025 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

Within 10 days after 

authorities for review 

receipt of the 

approved MSC (or 

according to the 

timelines set by NCAs) 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

According to the 

Dissemination of MSC  

timelines set by NCAs 

Within 2 weeks after 

respective NCA 

approval 

Page 3/3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
