Medicine Shortage Communication 

<date> 

Beriglobin (human normal immunoglobulin), 2 mL and 5 mL solution 
for injection in pre-filled syringe: supply shortage and cessation of 
marketing (discontinuation) 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

CSL Behring GmbH <affiliate to include country specific information to reflect global or local company 

name> is notifying healthcare professionals about the marketing cessation (discontinuation) of 

Beriglobin (human normal immunoglobulin) in all EU/EEA markets. As a result, this discontinuation will 

lead to shortages and non-availability of Beriglobin. 

Overview of situation 

•  CSL Behring GmbH stopped manufacturing of Beriglobin in August 2024 and 
has since decided to stop marketing of Beriglobin in EU/EEA markets due to 
commercial reasons.  

•  Beriglobin may be critical for people at increased risk of serious hepatitis A 
disease and who require post-exposure prophylaxis with anti-hepatitis A 
immunoglobulins as there are no authorised alternatives for this indication 
in the EU/EEA.   

•  The shortage affects all of the EU countries where the product was marketed 

or imported. 

•  The shortage is not due to any safety, efficacy or quality concerns with 

Beriglobin.  

Mitigation measures 

In order to manage the shortage and discontinuation, the marketing authorisation holder is engaging 

with the European Medicines Agency and the National Competent Authority on mitigation measures.  

Healthcare professionals should consider the following mitigation measures: 

•  No new patients should be prescribed Beriglobin for those indications for which there is an 

alternative treatment. 

• 

Existing stocks of Beriglobin should be reserved for patients for whom there is no alternative 

treatment.  

•  When switching patients to alternative products, healthcare professionals should follow the 
medicine’s dosing recommendations in the relevant summary of product characteristics 

(SmPCs). 

In addition, for the situations below, healthcare professionals may consider the 
following options, where this in line with their local and national guidance and 
clinical judgment: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

For patients with primary and secondary immunodeficiencies who are currently on Beriglobin 

consider switching to alternative formulations of normal human immunoglobulins.  

• 

There are no alternative immunoglobulin medicinal products authorised in the EU/EEA for pre- 

or post-exposure prophylaxis of hepatitis A:  

o  For pre-exposure prophylaxis against hepatitis A, EU-authorised vaccines may be used  

o  For post-exposure prophylaxis, follow recommended approach in your country  

•  <For patients with radiation-induced oral mucositis, consult relevant guidelines for information 

on how to manage this condition.> 

For additional information related to the shortage consult EMA’s shortage catalogue, your country’s 
shortage register or your national competent authority (NCA). <Please note that NCAs do not issue 
clinical guidance.> <For clinical guidelines contact relevant local or national learned societies.> 

Background on the shortage 

Beriglobin may be critical for vulnerable groups, including individuals with chronic liver disease, with 

chronic hepatitis B or C, immunocompromised individuals, cancer patients or other conditions that 

make them more susceptible to serious hepatitis A disease.  

Beriglobin may be also recommended in situations where the vaccine is contraindicated or may not 

yield protective immunity. 

The approved indications or their wording may differ between countries; in addition, some countries 

may import the product for individual patients according to national procedures. 

Beriglobin is indicated for subcutaneous administration as replacement therapy in adults, children and 

adolescents (0-18 years) with: 

• 

Primary immunodeficiency syndromes with impaired antibody production.  

•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in patients with chronic 

lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), in whom prophylactic antibiotics have failed or are contra-

indicated. 

•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in multiple myeloma (MM) 

patients. 

•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia in patients pre- and post-allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 

transplantation (HSCT). 

Beriglobin is indicated for intramuscular administration for Hepatitis A prophylaxis in adults, children 

and adolescents (0-18 years); it is used as: 

• 

Pre-exposure prophylaxis, preferably in combination with active vaccination, in unvaccinated 

individuals travelling in less than 2 weeks to areas of hepatitis A risk. 

• 

Post-exposure prophylaxis in unvaccinated individuals within 2 weeks of hepatitis A virus 

exposure. 

<Beriglobin is indicated for the treatment of the radiogenic mucositis.>  

Company contact point 

<Contact point details for access to further information, including relevant website address(es), 

telephone numbers and a postal address> 

 
 
<Germany: 

CSL Behring GmbH 

Emil-von-Behring-Straße 76 

D-35041 Marburg 

Tel.: +49 6190 75-84810 

medwiss@cslbehring.com> 

<Austria: 

CSL Behring Österreich 

Austria Campus 6 

Walcherstrasse 1A / Stiege 1 

1020 Wien, Austria 

Tel: 0043 (0)1 80101 1040 

office.vienna@cslbehring.com> 

<Spain: 

CSL Behring España 

Calle Tarragona, 149-157 · planta 18 

08014 Barcelona, España 

Tel.: +34 933 671 870 

webmaster.es@cslbehring.com> 

<Sweden: 

CSL Behring AB 

Box 712 

SE-182 17 Danderyd 

Sverige 

Besöksadress: Berga Backe 2, Danderyd 

Tel.: +46 (0) 8 544 966 70 

info@cslbehring.se> 

Annexes (if applicable) 

<Link/reference to other available relevant information, such as information on the website of a 

competent authority> 

 
 
  
  
  
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Beriglobin / Human normal immunoglobulin (IMIg) 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

CSL Behring GmbH 

Purpose of the 

Inform Health Care Professionals on the discontinuation of Beriglobin 

communication 

and mitigation measures to manage the marketing cessation. 

MSC recipients 

Target group for this letter includes specialists who treat patients with 

Beriglobin (e.g. specialists in internal medicine, specialists for infections, 

specialists in oncology, Health Care Professionals in public health 

services), general practitioners/family physicians, pharmacists, in all 

EU/EEA countries in which Beriglobin is marketed or imported.  

The target group can be further defined at national level, in agreement 

with the respective national competent authorities. 

Member States where 

In agreement with the national competent authorities. 

the MSC will be 

distributed 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

16 September 2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

31 October 2025  

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

24 November 2025 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

By 04 December 

Dissemination of MSC  

2025 

11 December 2025 

 
 
 
 
 
 
