Medicine Shortage Communication (MSC) 

17 September 2025 

Visudyne (verteporfin, powder for solution for injection, 15 mg): 
Supply shortage to continue until the end of 2026 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH is providing healthcare professionals with an update on the shortage 

of Visudyne. 

Overview of situation 

•  There  has  been  a  shortage    of  Visudyne    since  May  2020  due  to  reduced 

manufacturing capabilities. 

•  Although  Visudyne's  supply  capacity  was  partially  restored  in  Q1/2022,  it 
remains  insufficient  to  fully  meet  demand.  Consequently,  the  current 
approach  of  reduced  and  controlled  deliveries  will  continue  for  the 
foreseeable future, resulting in continued shortages, until the end of 2026.  

•  A  new  supply  chain  is  being  established  to  ensure  a  more  stable  supply  of 
Visudyne  in  EU/  EEA  countries;  however  due  to  manufacturing  delays  this 
will not be established until July 2026.  

•  CHEPLAPHARM would like to emphasize that Visudyne is at present the sole 

medicinal product containing verteporfin in the EU/EEA. 

•  CHEPLAPHARM  is  committed  to  ensuring  a  fair  and  equitable  allocation  of 
Visudyne,  based  on  historical  demand,  and  will  prioritise  its  supply  to 
patients in Member States that are most affected by the shortage.  

•  The  shortage  is  not  due  to  any  safety,  efficacy  or  quality  concerns  with 

Visudyne. 

Mitigation measures 

In  order  to  manage  the  shortage,  CHEPLAPHARM  Arzneimittel  GmbH  is  engaging  with  the  European 

Medicines  Agency  and  the  [National  Competent  Authority]  on  mitigation  measures,  including  careful 

allocation of stocks based on demand.  

During the shortage, healthcare professionals should: 

•  Take  the  limited  availability  of  Visudyne  into  account  when  planning, 

prioritising and prescribing treatments;  

•  Coordinate with relevant health authorities and follow their guidance, where 

applicable, to ensure patients at greatest need receive therapy; 

•  Consult  EMA’s  shortage  catalogue,  your  country’s  shortage  register  (if 
available) or your national competent authority for additional information. 

 
 
 
Background on the shortage   

Visudyne is authorised for the treatment of adults with exudative (‘wet’) form of age-related macular 

degeneration (AMD) with predominantly classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) or adults 

with subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation secondary to pathologic myopia.  

Since May 2020, the supply of Visudyne has been interrupted due to an unexpected breakdown of the 

filling line. To restore supply, the manufacturing process has been transferred to an alternative existing 

production  line  in  the  same  building,  with  equivalent  machines  and  using  the  same  technology  and 

process. In Q1/2022 the production was restored, but with limited capacity unable to meet demand. As 

a result, deliveries will be consistent but quantities of Visudyne are expected to be limited, resulting in 

continued shortages until the end of 2026. 

The  limited  availability  continues  to  affect  all  EU/EEA  countries  where  the  product  is  marketed 

including  Austria,  Belgium,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Ireland,  Italy, 

Luxembourg,  Netherlands,  Norway,  Poland,  Portugal,  Spain  and  Sweden.  Based  on  historic  demand, 

CHEPLAPHARM  will  ensure  the  fair  and  equitable  allocation  of  Visudyne  to  all  impacted  markets  in 

order to safeguard the treatment of urgent cases. 

Two  direct  healthcare  professional  communications  (DHPCs)  have  been  disseminated  over  the  past 

four years,find links below:.  

•  DHPC, published on EMA website on 05 November 2021: 

https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/dhpc/direct-healthcare-professional-

communication-dhpc-visudyne-verteporfin-information-continuing-supply-restriction-until-end-

q12022_en.pdf 

•  DHCP, published on EMA website on 12 August 2022:  

https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/dhpc/direct-healthcare-professional-

communication-dhpc-visudyne-verteporfin-information-continuing-supply-limitation-until-end-

2023_en.pdf 

The present letter is to extend the duration of the shortage and inform the timeline for establishment 

of the new supply chain to ensure a stable supply of Visudyne to EU/ EEA countries in the future. 

Company contact point 

CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany 

Telephone: +49 3834 451-0 
Website: www.cheplapharm.com 
e-mail: info@cheplapharm.com 

 
 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Visudyne 15 mg 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH (Germany) 

Purpose of the 

Information on the continuing supply limitation of Visudyne 15 mg until 

communication 

the end of 2026 

MSC recipients 

Ophthalmologists and pharmacists in centres dispensing Visudyne.  The 

target group should be further defined at national level, in agreement 

with the respective national competent authority.  

Member States where 

Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, 

the MSC will be 

Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland 

distributed 

Portugal, Spain, Sweden 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

14 August 2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

27 August 2025 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

2 September 2025 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

10 September 2025 

Dissemination of MSC  

17 September 2025 

 
 
 
 
 
