Medicine Shortage Communication  

26 January 2026 

Natpar (parathyroid hormone) 25, 50, 75 and 100 micrograms/dose 
powder and solvent for solution for injection: end of supply due to 
marketing cessation (discontinuation) 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

Takeda is notifying healthcare professionals about a upcoming permanent stock-out of 
Natpar. 

Overview of situation 

•  Due to unresolved manufacturing challenges with Natpar, manufacturing of 

the 100mcg dose was discontinued in 2022 and manufacturing of all other 
strengths was discontinued globally at the end of 2024. This information 
was previously communicated in October 20221.  

•  The company has continued to supply any remaining stock where available 
but will cease distribution prior to the planned withdrawal of the marketing 
authorisation of Natpar, scheduled on 01 July 2026.  

•  The last lot of pen devices of Natpar will expire on 30 June 2026; patients 

should be advised not to use the Natpar pen beyond its expiry date. Patients 
should be informed that, after this date, any remaining packs should be 
returned to the pharmacy or hospital where they were obtained. 

•  Below are the current anticipated stock-out dates in <insert country>: 

Please note these dates are approximate and are based on historical trends 
in usage, which may not accurately reflect future demand.  

25mcg: <insert date here> 

50mcg: <insert date here> 

75mcg: <insert date here> 

100mcg: Unavailable since October 2022 

Mitigation measures 

In order to manage the market cessation and any associated risk of shortages, the 
marketing authorisation holder (MAH) is engaging with the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) and [National Competent Authority] on mitigation measures.  

In preparation for the discontinuation, healthcare professionals should follow the 
below advice: 

•  Do not prescribe Natpar to new patients.  

•  For existing patients and while stocks last, a reduced dose should be 
prescribed, if this is an option. Dose reductions increase the risk of 

1 Natpar - direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) | European Medicines Agency (EMA)  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypocalcaemia. When reducing Natpar treatment, it is very important to 
closely monitor serum calcium levels and monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of hypocalcaemia, while carefully adjusting active vitamin D and 
supplemental calcium doses in all patients. Patients should be informed 
about the signs of hypocalcaemia (see section 4.8 List of adverse reactions 
in the SmPC2 for Natpar) and advised when they should inform their doctor. 

•  Patients should be switched in time to a suitable alternative therapy, where 

appropriate and in line with relevant clinical guidelines, including the 
Revised European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline: 
Treatment of Chronic Hypoparathyroidism in Adults3. 

•  Abrupt interruption or discontinuation of Natpar can result in severe 

hypocalcaemia. When stopping Natpar treatment, it is very important to 
closely monitor serum calcium levels and monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of hypocalcaemia, while carefully adjusting active vitamin D and 
supplemental calcium doses in all patients. Healthcare professionals should 
refer to section 4.2 (Interruption or discontinuation of treatment) and 
section 4.4 (Warnings and Precautions: Hypocalcaemia) in the SmPC for 
Natpar. 

•  Long-term treatment plans should be discussed with patients, to minimise 

the risks of complications from abruptly stopping Natpar. 

•  For additional information consult EMA’s shortage catalogue, <your 

country’s shortage register> or <your national competent authority>. 

Background on the shortage   

Natpar is indicated as adjunctive treatment of adult patients with chronic 
hypoparathyroidism who cannot be adequately controlled with standard therapy alone. 
Takeda communicated the decision to discontinue manufacturing of all strengths of Natpar 
by the end of 2024, due to unresolved manufacturing issues, via a direct healthcare 
professional communication (DHPC) issued in October 2022.  

Company contact point 

For questions relating to the content of this communication, please contact the Takeda 
Medical Information Department <insert local or global contact phone number>. 

Please continue to report suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to <insert HA name> via 
<insert details>. 

When reporting, please provide as much information as possible, including information about 
medical history, any concomitant medication, timing onset of the adverse event/s, treatment 
dates, and product brand name. Adverse events should also be reported to Takeda: <insert 
local contact details>. 

2 Natpar, INN-parathyroid hormone (rDNA) 

3 Revised European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline: Treatment of Chronic 
Hypoparathyroidism in Adults | European Journal of Endocrinology | Oxford Academic 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexes  

Annex 1: Communication Plan 

Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

Purpose of the 

communication 

MSC recipients 

Member States where 

the MSC will be 

distributed 

Natpar (parathyroid hormone) 

Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch 

To inform prescribing physicians of the upcoming permanent 
cessation of supply and Marketing Authorisation withdrawal of 
Natpar in the EEA and advice to move patients to an alternative 
therapy. 

Prescribing physicians, endocrinologists and pharmacists to be 
confirmed by local commercial teams. Patient Advocacy Groups 
to be identified and included.  

In all EEA member states where Natpar is distributed, whether 
commercially or via clinical trials or named patient programs. 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

16 Dec 2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

26 Jan 2026 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

28 Jan 2026 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

04 Feb 2026 

Dissemination of MSC  

06 Feb 2026 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
