Medicine Shortage Communication 

<Date> 

<Endoxan/Sendoxan/Genoxal> (cyclophosphamide, <100 mg / 200 
mg / 500 mg / 1 g / 2 g> powder for solution for injection or 
infusion): supply shortage 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

Baxter is notifying healthcare professionals about a shortage of intravenous 

Endoxan/Sendoxan/Genoxal (cyclophosphamide). 

Overview of situation 

•  A technical disruption at Baxter’s contract manufacturing site led to an 

interruption in the manufacturing and product release for cyclophosphamide 
powder for solution for injection or infusion 
(<Endoxan/Sendoxan/Genoxal>, powder for solution for injection or 
infusion, <100 mg / 200 mg / 500 mg / 1 g / 2 g >). 

•  This has led, or is expected to lead, to a shortage of the medicine in all EU 
countries. While the timing of supply interruptions will differ between 
countries, the supply shortage is expected to continue through Q3 2026. 

•  Baxter is working with the manufacturing partner to restore normal supply 

as quickly as possible.  

•  The supply of Baxter cyclophosphamide in tablet form is unaffected. 

•  The shortage is not due to any safety, efficacy or quality concern with 

currently available supplies of cyclophosphamide. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitigation measures 

In order to manage the shortage, Baxter is engaging with the European Medicines Agency and the 

National Competent Authority on mitigation measures.  

During the shortage, healthcare professionals should: 

•  confirm that there are adequate supplies of intravenous cyclophosphamide 
available to complete a treatment course before starting any new patients 
on treatment.   

•  be aware that Baxter is the primary supplier of cyclophosphamide in the EU, 
however, there are other suppliers of intravenous cyclophosphamide in 
many EU Member States. 

•  note that the supply of Baxter cyclophosphamide in tablet form is 

unaffected.  

•  consult EMA’s shortage catalogue and country-specific shortage registers 
(where available) or your national competent authority for additional 
information on the shortage. 

•  advise concerned patients and caregivers to seek medical advice from their 

healthcare provider. 

Background on the shortage   

Cyclophosphamide is used in clinical practice for the treatment of a broad range of haematologic 

malignancies and solid tumours, as well as in conditioning regimens for bone-marrow transplantation. 

It is also used in the management of certain severe autoimmune conditions. 

Baxter’s contract manufacturing organisation recently experienced a technical disruption that affected 

site operations, including production planning and inventory systems. At the same time, the site has 

been implementing corrective actions following a regulatory inspection. Together, these factors have 

led to a short

term interruption in manufacturing and product release for cyclophosphamide powder for 

solution for injection or infusion (<Endoxan/Sendoxan/Genoxal>). 

‑

Baxter, as the marketing authorisation holder, is working closely with the manufacturing partner to 

resolve the situation and restore supplies as quickly as possible. Manufacturing has now resumed at 

the facility. 

While Baxter is a key supplier of cyclophosphamide across the EU, there are other marketing 

authorisation holders who can supply intravenous cyclophosphamide. The supply of Baxter 

cyclophosphamide in tablet form is unaffected. 

Company contact point  

Please contact Baxter’s Medical Information service, details of which can be found on Baxter’s country-

specific websites. 

 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Endoxan, Sendoxan, Genoxal (cyclophosphamide, powder for solution 

product(s)/active 

for injection or infusion) 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

Baxter 

Purpose of the 

To inform healthcare professionals about a shortage in supply affecting 

communication 

all Member States 

MSC recipients 

Oncologists, haematologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, hospital 

pharmacists  

Member States where 

All EU/EEA Member States  

the MSC will be 

distributed 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

18 February 2026 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

11 March 2026 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

20 March 2026 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

27 March 2026 

Dissemination of MSC  

3 April 2026 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
