Medicine Shortage Communication  

<Date> 

Victoza 6 mg/mL solution for injection in pre-filled pen (liraglutide): 
Risk of supply shortage due to marketing cessation (discontinuation) 

Dear Healthcare Professional, 

Novo Nordisk <affiliate to include country specific information to reflect global or local company name> 

in agreement with the European Medicines Agency and the <National Competent Authority> is 

notifying healthcare professionals about the marketing cessation (discontinuation) of Victoza 

(liraglutide) in all EU/EEA countries. This discontinuation may lead to short-term intermittent shortages 

in some countries. 

Overview of situation 

•  Novo Nordisk will discontinue the marketing of Victoza across the EU/EEA by 

the end of 2026.  

•  Due to the marketing cessation, there may be a risk of short-term intermittent 

shortages in some countries until the product is no longer marketed. 

•  Timelines for the discontinuation vary from country to country, but will be 

completed in all EU member states by December 2026. 

•  The discontinuation in <insert country name> <will occur> <occurred> 

before/by/in <insert date>.  

•  The marketing cessation is for commercial reasons and not a consequence of 

any safety or quality related issue. 

Mitigation measures 

Novo Nordisk is engaging with the European Medicines Agency and the [National Competent Authority] 

on mitigation measures.  

Regulatory authorities, physicians, healthcare providers and patient organisations are being informed 

to help ensure patients transition safely to alternative options for continuity of care.  

Patients need to be switched to an alternative treatment in time to avoid the risk of missing doses, 
which may lead to serious clinical consequences. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthcare professionals (HCPs) should consider the following mitigation 
measures:  

•  No new patients should be started on Victoza.  

•  HCPs should switch all patients who are currently on Victoza to alternative GLP-1 analogues or 

other alternative medication based on existing guidance and clinical judgement.  

•  HCPs are requested to follow the relevant summary of product characteristics (SmPCs) of the 

alternative products for dosing recommendations while switching patients to alternative products. 

•  HCPs are requested to provide clear instructions of usage to the patient, if switched to alternative 

GLP-1 analogue or other alternative. 

•  Close glucose monitoring is recommended during the switch to another type or brand of alternative 

GLP-1 analogue or other alternative and patients should be fully informed about any relevant 

changes. 

Background information   

Victoza1 is indicated for the treatment of adults, adolescents and children aged 10 years and above 

with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise:  

• as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contra indications; 

• in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes 

[affiliate to include country specific indication information]. [affiliate to include country specific 

presentation information].  

For up-to-date information on the availability of Victoza and the alternatives in a particular EU/EEA 

country, consult the National Competent Authority. 

Company contact point 

Further information can be obtained by contacting <local Novo Nordisk affiliate contact details to be 

added by affiliate> 

Yours sincerely, 

Medical Director  

Annex 

References:  

1.  Victoza | European Medicines Agency (EMA) 

Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

Victoza (liraglutide) 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

Marketing 

authorisation 

holder(s)  

Novo Nordisk A/S 

Purpose of the 

Inform healthcare professionals on the discontinuation of Victoza and 

communication 

mitigation measures to manage the marketing cessation. 

MSC recipients 

Target group for this letter includes specialists who treat patients with 

diabetes (e.g. endocrinologists, diabetologists, specialists in internal 

medicine), general practitioners/family physicians, pharmacists, diabetes 

nurses in all EU/EEA countries in which Victoza is marketed. The target 

group can be further defined at national level, in agreement with the 

respective national competent authorities.  

Member States where 

All EU/EEA countries where Victoza is marketed 

the MSC will be 

distributed 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

14 August 2025 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

22 August 2025 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

29 August 2025 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

02 September 2025 

Dissemination of MSC  

by 05 September 2025 

 
 
 
 
 
