Medicine Shortage Communication 

02 July 2026 

AZACTAM 1g and 2g (aztreonam powder for solution for injection): 

Supply shortage 

Dear Healthcare Professionals, 

Laboratoires DELBERT, is notifying healthcare professionals about a shortage of AZACTAM (aztreonam) 

1g and 2g powder for solution for infusion.  

This shortage affects all EU/EEA countries where the product is marketed.   

The shortage is due to manufacturing issues of the new manufacturing site and not due to any safety, 

efficacy or quality concern with currently available supplies of Azactam. 

Overview of situation 

Supply  shortages  are  affecting  all  markets.  It  is  not  clear  when  this  shortage  will 

end,  however  the  company  is  working  to  restore  normal  supply  as  quickly  as 

possible.  

Mitigation measures 

In order to mitigate the supply shortage, Laboratoires Delbert is engaging with the European Medicines 

Agency and National Competent Authorities to implement the following mitigation measures: 

•  Supply of additional batches to the EU/EEA from stock not originally intended for use in the EU/EEA 

•  Centralised  EU/EEA  stock  management,  including  monitoring  of  inventory  levels  to  support  the 

allocation of supplies to countries based on demand and need. 

• 

Implementation of controlled distribution measures in countries where it is feasible to do so 

Healthcare professionals (HCPs) should consider the following mitigation 

measures:   

•  Restrict use of Azactam to the following indications: <to be completed in consultation 

with National Competent Authorities> 

•  For all other indications, HCPs should consider alternative treatment approaches. <The 

following alternatives can be considered, depending on national prescribing guidelines 

and availability: 

• 

to be completed in consultation with National Competent Authorities> 

For additional information consult your national competent authority website/national 

guidance. 

 
 
 
Background on the shortage and the medicinal product 

The  shortage  has  been  ongoing  for  a  prolonged  period  and  continues  to  affect  the  availability  of 

Azactam throughout EU. While some countries are already experiencing shortages, others are expected 

to be impacted in the near future. It is not known when the shortage will be resolved. 

Azactam is considered a critical medicinal product, particularly for the treatment of serious infections 

caused by susceptible Gram-negative bacteria in patients with limited therapeutic options. Importantly, 

there are currently no direct therapeutic alternatives available in the EU that can fully replace Azactam 

in all approved indications and patient populations.  

For up-to-date information on the availability of Azactam and the alternatives in a particular EU/EEA 

country, consult the National Competent Authority.  

Further information on these can be obtained by contacting the company contact point below, or the 

National Competent Authority. 

Company contact point 

<Contact point details for access to further information, including relevant website address(es), 

telephone numbers and a postal address> 

FRANCE, BELGIUM, LUXEMBOURG, AUSTRIA, NORWAY, FINLAND, SWEDEN, Portugal, ROMANIA 

affaires.pharmaceutiques@delbert.fr 

https://delbertpharma.com/fr/produit/azactam/  

+33 01 46 99 68 20 

49 Rue Rouelle, 75015 Paris, France 

SPAIN 

galenicumderma@galenicum.com 

+34 932 011 750 

Carretera N-I ,Km 36, San Agustin de Guadalix, 28750 Madrid, Spain 

Annexes (if applicable) 

<Link/reference to other available relevant information, such as information on the website of a 

competent authority>  

 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication Plan for Medicine Shortage Communication 

MSC COMMUNICATION PLAN 

Medicinal 

AZACTAM 1 g powder for solution for injection 

product(s)/active 

substance(s) 

AZACTAM 2 g powder for solution for injection 

Marketing 

France (1g) / BELGIUM (1g&2g) / Luxembourg (1g&2g)  / Portugal (1g) 

authorisation 

/ AUSTRIA (1g&2g) / FINLAND (1g&2g)  / NORWAY (2g)/ SWEDEN 

holder(s)  

(1g&2g) / ROMANIA (1gr) : Laboratoires DELBERT (France) 

SPAIN (1g): GALENICUM DERMA (Spain) 

Purpose of the 

Inform of supply constraints and advise potential mitigation measures. 

communication 

MSC recipients 

Hospital pharmacists, anesthesiologists, intensivists, infectious disease 

specialists, pulmonologists, uro-nephrologists, gastroenterologists, 

visceral and orthopedic surgeons, hospital cardiologists. 

Relevant national Medical Societies. 

The target group should be further defined at national level, in 

agreement with the respective national competent authority. 

Member States where 

France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Portugal, Austria, Finland, Norway, 

the MSC will be 

Sweden, Spain, Romania. 

distributed 

Timetable [Delete steps which are not applicable] 

Date 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by SPOC WP 

19.06.2026 

MSC and communication plan (in English) agreed by MSSG  

02.07.2026 

Submission of translated MSCs to the national competent 

03.07.2026 

authorities for review 

Agreement of translations by national competent authorities   

17.07.2026 

Dissemination of MSC  

17.07.2026 

 
 
 
 
