 General Disclaimer | U.S. Department of Labor Skip to main content An official website of the United States government. Here’s how you know Here’s how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. U.S. Department of Labor FAQ Contact Us Menu Search submenu TOPICS Back Topics Disability Resources Disaster Recovery Assistance Elaws Equal Employment Opportunity Evidence Grants Guidance Search Health Plans and Benefits Hiring Registered Apprenticeship International Labor Issues Job Corps Labor Relations Leave Benefits Other Benefits Posters Retirement Plans, Benefits and Savings Spanish-Language Resources Termination Training Unemployment Insurance Veterans Employment Wages Whistleblower Protection Work Hours Workers' Compensation Workplace Safety and Health Youth & Young Worker Employment AGENCIES Back Agencies Administrative Review Board (ARB) Benefits Review Board (BRB) Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB) Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Center for Faith Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) Employees' Compensation Appeals Board (ECAB) Employment and Training Administration (ETA) Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) Office of Congressional & Intergovernmental Affairs (OCIA) Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP) Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) Office of Inspector General (OIG) Office of Labor-Management Standards (OLMS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy (OASP) Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO) Office of the Solicitor (SOL) Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) Ombudsman for the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program (EEOMBD) Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) Wage and Hour Division (WHD) Women's Bureau (WB) FORMS ABOUT US Back About Us Agencies and Programs Leadership Team Budget, Performance and Planning Calendar Careers at DOL History Privacy Program Recursos en Español NEWS Back News Newsroom News Releases Blog Economic Data from the Department of Labor FAQ Search Search Breadcrumb Home General Disclaimer En Español The U.S. Department of Labor maintains this website to enhance public access to the department's information. This is a service that is continually under development. We will make every effort to keep this site current and to correct errors brought to our attention. The documents on this site contain links to information created and maintained by other public and private organizations. Please be aware that we do not control or guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of this outside information. Further, the inclusion of links to particular items is not intended to reflect their importance, nor is it intended to endorse any views expressed or products or services offered by the author of the reference or the organization operating the site on which the reference is maintained. Translations of any materials into languages other than English are intended solely as a convenience to the non-English-reading public and are not legally binding. We have attempted to provide an accurate translation of the original material in English, but due to the nuances in translating to a foreign language, slight differences may exist. References identifying the original document in English are available in most non-English documents. Statutory and Regulatory Disclaimer En Español The U.S. Department of Labor is providing this information as a public service. These regulations and related materials are maintained on this website to enhance public access to information on Department of Labor programs. This is a service that is continually under development. The Federal Register and the Code of Federal Regulations remain the official sources for regulatory information published by the Department. The user should be aware that, while we try to keep the information on our website timely and accurate, there will often be a delay between official publication of the materials and their appearance or modification on these pages. We will make every effort to correct errors brought to our attention. Translations of any materials into languages other than English are intended solely as a convenience to the non-English-reading public and are not legally binding. We have attempted to provide an accurate translation of the original material in English, but due to the nuances in translating to a foreign language, slight differences may exist. References identifying the original document in English are available in most non-English documents. Scroll to Top Agencies Forms Guidance Search FAQ About DOL News U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20210 1-866-4-USA-DOL 1-866-487-2365 www.dol.gov Federal Government White House Disaster Recovery Assistance DisasterAssistance.gov USA.gov Notification of EEO Violations No Fear Act Data U.S. Office of Special Counsel Labor Department About DOL Guidance Search Español Office of Inspector General A to Z Index About The Site Freedom of Information Act Privacy & Security Statement Disclaimers Important Website Notices Plug-Ins Used on DOL.gov Accessibility Statement Connect With DOL Facebook X Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Important Website Notices Privacy & Security Statement 