 MSHA - Open Government Initiative Portal Skip to content Find it at MSHA --> Subscribe to Email Updates UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR A-Z Index | --> Site Map | FAQs | MSHA Forms | Contact Us --> Mine Safety and Health Administration - MSHA --> - Protecting Miners' Safety and Health Since 1978 Search MSHA Data Sets The President’s Memorandum on Transparency and Open Government The President's first executive action, the Open Government Memorandum called for more transparent, participatory, and collaborative government. "My Administration is committed to creating an unprecedented level of openness in Government. We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration. Openness will strengthen our democracy and promote efficiency and effectiveness in Government." Government should be transparent . Transparency promotes accountability and provides information for citizens about what their Government is doing. Information maintained by the Federal Government is a national asset. ( see more... ) --> Jump to Data Sets --> *** Due to technical issues the data for this week will be postponed. Updates will be forth coming. Currently, Area and Personal Health Samples are available for download.*** --> - These files are updated every Friday afternoon unless otherwise noted here. Accident Injuries Data Set This dataset contains information on all accidents, injuries and illnesses reported by mine operators and contractors beginning on 1/1/2000. The data in the table is obtained from the Mine Accident, Injury and Illness Report form (MSHA Form 7000-1). Document number is the unique key for this data. It provides information about the accident/injury/illness such as type, mine location, lost days and the degree of injury. - Definition File - PC7014 Report on 30 CFR Part 50 (Yellow Jacket) (PDF) Area Samples This dataset contains information about samples taken at Metal/Non-Metal mines and the locations where the samples were taken beginning on 1/1/2000. It includes such information as the sample date, contaminant code, location code, concentration and the action taken upon analysis of the sample. Sample No. is the unique key for this file. - Definition File Coal Dust Samples Data Set The Coal Dust Samples dataset lists all operator and inspector dust samples taken since 1/1/2000 for gravimetric samples. It includes information such as cassette numbers, date the sample was taken, initial and final weights, sample type, occupation codes related to the person taking the sample and mine information. Cassette number is the primary key for gravimetric samples. It also contains operator Continuous Personal Dust Monitor (CPDM) samples for operators as of 2/1/2016. The unique key is the CPDM file name. This dataset can be linked to the Mines dataset for further mine information. - Definition File Conferences This dataset contains information about completed conferences beginning on 1/1/2000. When citations are contested by an operator, contractor, agent or miner, a conference may be held to discuss the details of the citations to determine whether or not a particular violation will be assessed a penalty or if an alternate action will be taken. Data beginning on 1/1/2000 contains the conference number, the responsible party requesting the conference, the event number leading to the citation and the final status of the conference for all completed conferences. - Definition File Civil Penalty Dockets Decisions This dataset lists civil penalty dockets both in the litigation process and those that received an ALJ/Commission Settlement Approval or Decision. The dataset includes the original proposed penalty amount as well as the decision amount, if the decision is recorded. Violations at a mine for a specific violator are bundled together into billing statements referred to as Assessment Cases (assess case no). Each Assessment Case may be associated to one or more docket numbers. Excluded from this dataset are discrimination dockets and agent/miner dockets. - Definition File Contractor Employment/Production (Quarterly) This dataset contains employment and coal production reported by contractors for each quarter in a calendar year, by subunit and mine ID beginning on 1/1/2000. The subunit code identifies the location or operation of the mine relating to the: (01) Underground; (02) Surface at underground; (03) Strip, quarry, open pit; (04) Auger; (05) Culm bank/refuse pile; (06) Dredge; (12) Other mining; (17) Independent shops or yards; (30) Mill operation/preparation plant; (99) Office workers at mine site. - Definition File Contractor Employment/Production (Yearly) This dataset contains the annual summation of employee hours and coal production reported by contractors where the average quarterly employment is greater than zero with grouping by calendar year, subunit code and mine ID beginning on 1/1/2000. The subunit code identifies the location or operation of the mine relating to the: (01) Underground; (02) Surface at underground; (03) Strip, quarry, open pit; (04) Auger; (05) Culm bank/refuse pile; (06) Dredge; (12) Other mining; (17) Independent shops or yards; (30) Mill operation/preparation plant; (99) Office workers at mine site. - Definition File Controller/Operator History (Yearly) This dataset shows the history of controllers at mining operations and the associations to the operators at those mines. Included are the starting and ending dates for a controller at each mine and the operator history at that mine. - Definition File Employment/Production Data Set (Yearly) This dataset contains the annual summation of employee hours and coal production reported by mine operators where the average quarterly employment is greater than zero with grouping by calendar year, subunit code and mine ID beginning on 1/1/2000. The subunit code identifies the location or operation of the mine relating to the: (01) Underground; (02) Surface at underground; (03) Strip, quarry, open pit; (04) Auger; (05) Culm bank/refuse pile; (06) Dredge; (12) Other mining; (17) Independent shops or yards; (30) Mill operation/preparation plant; (99) Office workers at mine site. - Definition File (MNM Operators are not required to report production) Employment/Production Data Set (Quarterly) This dataset contains employment and coal production reported by mine operators for each quarter in a calendar year, by subunit and mine ID beginning on 1/1/2000. The subunit code identifies the location or operation of the mine relating to the: (01) Underground; (02) Surface at underground; (03) Strip, quarry, open pit; (04) Auger; (05) Culm bank/refuse pile; (06) Dredge; (12) Other mining; (17) Independent shops or yards; (30) Mill operation/preparation plant; (99) Office workers at mine site. - Definition File (MNM Operators are not required to report production) Inspections Data Set The Mine Inspections dataset lists every mine inspection conducted by MSHA beginning on 1/1/2000. The data includes the name of the mine inspected, MSHA's internal inspection number (event number), the type of inspection and the start and end dates of the inspection. Event Number is the unique key for this dataset. It also includes the Mine ID associated with the inspections which can be used to relate it to the Mines Data Set. The mine inspections data set does not include Compliance Assistance Visits (CAVs). - Definition File Mine Addresses of Record Data Set This dataset contains mine addresses for all mines in the database except for Abandoned mines prior to 1998 from MSHA's legacy system. The address is the one entered by the mine operator at the time a Legal ID form is completed for a requested mine identification number. It is updated by MSHA district offices as required. The mine id is the unique key for this data. - Definition File (This includes Abandoned Mines and Abandoned and Sealed Mines, and does not represent the actual mine location.) Mines Data Set The Mine dataset lists all Coal and Metal/Non-Metal mines under MSHA's jurisdiction since 1/1/1970. It includes such information as the current status of each mine (Active, Abandoned, NonProducing, etc.), the current owner and operating company, commodity codes and physical attributes of the mine. Mine ID is the unique key for this data. - Definition File (Includes Abandoned or Abandoned and Sealed Mines) Noise Samples The Noise Samples dataset includes information about noise samples taken and the types of protection being used, the machines active and environment at the time beginning on 1/1/2000. Form No. and Survey No. together create a unique key for the file. - Definition File Personal Health Samples This dataset contains information about samples taken at Metal/Non-Metal mines as it relates to miners beginning on 1/1/2000. Information included is the sample number and date, contaminant codes, concentration amounts and action taken upon analysis of the sample. Sample No. is the unique key for this file. - Definition File Quartz Samples - Coal The Quartz Samples dataset lists all operator and inspector dust samples for coal mines taken since 1/1/2000. It includes information such as cassette numbers, date the sample was taken, quartz percentage, sample type, occupation codes related to the person or area sampled and mine information. Cassette number is the primary key for this dataset and it can be linked to the Mines dataset using Mine ID for further mine information. - Definition File Complete Quartz Data The Complete Quartz Data Set lists all operator and inspector dust samples taken and analyzed for quartz from 1986 to the present. It includes information that is on the Quartz Samples dataset such as cassette numbers, date the sample was taken, quartz percentage, sample type, occupation codes related to the person or area sampled, and mine information. MSHA has included information that users previously had to cross reference from other datasets or calculate. Included is mine name, quartz concentration (?g/m3), and respirable dust concentration (mg/m3). - Definition File --> Violations Data Set This dataset contains violations issued as a result of MSHA inspections conducted beginning on 1/1/2000. Each inspection results in a unique Event Number that can be associated with many violations and is a direct link to the Inspections Data Set. The violator name at the time of the violation, the actual date the violation occurred and the date the violation was issued are in this file. This table contains details about the specific citation/order/safeguard issued, such as Section of the Act, relevant dates and the conditions or practices which caused and constituted a violation or an imminent danger. The data is captured from (MSHA form 7000-3). - Definition File (Does not include Vacated Violations) (includes Type_Action1) Contested Violations This dataset contains assessed violations since 1/1/2000 that have been contested by the violator and the contest request has been accepted by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (FMSHRC). These dockets are tracked through the hearing process and ultimately receive a decision. Decisions can affect the penalty amount and/or citation attributes - Definition File Assessed Violations This dataset contains information about violations that have been assessed penalties as a result of MSHA inspections beginning on 1/1/2000. Some of the values available are assessment case number, Mine Act Section Code, proposed penalty amounts, assessment and interest amounts, various penalty points and assessed case status information. - Definition File The above data files have been compressed (.zip) to speed up the downloading time. The definition files are .txt. All of the data sets are text delimited files. The delimiter is a vertical bar (|). Each file's first row is a header containing the names of each field. 107(a) Orders Issued The dataset contains information about orders issued since 1/1/2000 with 107(a) as primary action code. The dataset has information such as operator name, controller name, contactor name, issued date and terminated date. Violation No. is the unique key for this file. - Definition File From the Act - SEC. 107. (a) If, upon any inspection or investigation of a coal or other mine which is subject to this Act, an authorized representative of the Secretary finds that an imminent danger exists, such representative shall determine the extent of the area of such mine throughout which the danger exists, and issue an order requiring the operator of such mine to cause all persons, except those referred to in section 104(c), to be withdrawn from, and to be prohibited from entering, such area until an authorized representative of the Secretary determines that such imminent danger and the conditions or practices which caused such imminent danger no longer exist. The issuance of an order under this subsection shall not preclude the issuance of a citation under section 104 or the. proposing of a penalty under section 110. Below is a listing of 107(a) Orders issued by MSHA since July 1, 2010. This listing does not include any vacated orders. * All updates are complete replacements of each of the files. How to work with the files .TXT and .ZIP in Excel FAQs | Freedom of Information Act | Privacy & Security Statement | Disclaimers | Online Filing Help Desk | --> Contact Us U.S. Department of Labor | Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) | 200 Constitution Ave NW | Washington, DC 20210 www.msha.gov | 202-693-9400 